Chinstrap penguin, (Pygoscelis antarctica), also called ringed penguin or bearded penguin, species of penguin (order Sphenisciformes) characterized by a cap of black plumage on the top of the head, a white face, and a fine, continuous band of black feathers that extends from one side of the head to the other across each cheek and under the chin. The common name of the species derives from the presence of this “chinstrap” of black feathers. Other distinguishing features include a fine ring of black skin around each eye and a black bill. The species inhabits the northern part of the Antarctic Peninsula and several Antarctic and subantarctic islands. The largest concentrations of these birds are found in breeding colonies along the coasts of the South Orkney Islands, the South Shetland Islands, and the South Sandwich Islands. Breeding colonies also occur on the Antarctic Peninsula and on the Balleny Islands between Antarctica and New Zealand.

Adults average 71–76 cm (about 28–30 inches) in length and typically weigh 3–6 kg (about 7–13 pounds). Unlike many other penguin species, male and female chinstrap penguins are roughly the same size and closely resemble one another. Save for patches of dark feathers around the eyes, juveniles are similar to adults in size and coloration. Chicks are clothed in gray feathers and have a black bill.

Krill (Euphausia superba) make up nearly all (about 95–99 percent) of the diet of the average chinstrap penguin; however, fish and crustaceans are also consumed. Adults can pursue prey as deep as 100 metres (330 feet), but most prey is captured within 45–50 metres (about 150–165 feet) of the surface. At sea, adults are prey for leopard seals (Hydrurga leptonyx). On land, chicks and eggs are vulnerable to skuas (Catharacta) and sheathbills (Chionis).

Chinstrap penguins spend the winter on icebergs in warmer waters and on land north of their breeding colonies. After foraging at sea from late March through October, adults return to their colonies in early November. They nest on steep, rocky slopes, with the males often constructing circular enclosures made of stones. Breeding females produce two eggs between late November and early December. The eggs are cared for by both parents, who incubate the eggs in shifts of 5–10 days for the following five weeks. Just before the eggs hatch, shift length falls to 35 hours. Chicks, which emerge from their eggs in early January, remain in the nest until early February, before joining “crèches” (groups) with other members of their cohort for warmth and protection while their parents forage. Fledging, the stage in which the young are prepared for adulthood, occurs during early March. Some 50–60 days after they hatch, the young chinstrap penguins forage in the sea for the first time. They become sexually mature between ages three and seven, and they may live as long as 15–20 years.

The global population of the chinstrap penguins is estimated to be at least eight million. Although it is believed to be decreasing overall, its population is not severely fragmented and in many sites it is increasing or stable.
				
The chinstrap penguin is primarily threatened by climate change. In several parts of its range, climate change decreases the abundance of krill, which likely makes reproduction less successful. For instance, a 2019 expedition to breeding grounds on Elephant Island show a fifty percent population decline in just under fifty years. Other potential threats include volcanic events and the fishing of krill by humans. Several conservation actions are taking place for this species. Multiple areas where it lives are being monitored for long periods. Conservation actions proposed for the future include more monitoring and researching of its population, range, and behavior. It is listed as a species of least concern on the IUCN Red List as of 2016, due to its large range and population, following five previous assessments of the same status from 2004 to 2012 and three assessments as "unknown" from 1988 to 2000.

Penguins (order Sphenisciformes, family Spheniscidae) are a group of aquatic flightless birds. They live almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere, with only one species, the Galápagos penguin, found north of the equator. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage and flippers for swimming. Most penguins feed on krill, fish, squid and other forms of sea life which they catch while swimming underwater. They spend roughly half of their lives on land and the other half in the sea.

The largest living species is the emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri):[1] on average, adults are about 1.1 m (3 ft 7 in) tall and weigh 35 kg (77 lb). The smallest penguin species is the little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor), also known as the fairy penguin, which stands around 40 cm (16 in) tall and weighs 1 kg (2.2 lb). Among extant penguins, larger penguins inhabit colder regions, while smaller penguins are generally found in temperate or even tropical climates. Some prehistoric species attained enormous sizes, becoming as tall or as heavy as an adult human. These were not restricted to Antarctic regions; on the contrary, subantarctic regions harboured high diversity, and at least one giant penguin occurred in a region around 2,000 km south of the equator 35 mya, in a climate decidedly warmer than today.
